# EMS Panel

This is an EMS panel for the Duender 3D printer. What is EMS? It is a system
for managing the electronics for 3D printers from FizzyTechs. It consists of
a panel with hexagon cutouts, a set of hexagon shaped plugs that fit into the
panel, and a repository of mounts for various 3D printer electrical components.
The idea is that if you replace a component, or need to move one around, you
can just print the mount for the new component, or move the plugs to a
different cutout. There are also plugs for zip-ties, and a set of cable ducts
for solving any cable management issue.

https://www.printables.com/model/558357-ft-ems-mounts-repository

Note that there is no upper lid for the electronis bay, I was thinking a sheet
of Acrylic with a cutout or two for fans. The hexagon holes in the EMS panel
will allow cooling air to pass out from underneath the Duender.

## Printing

Print with the flat side down, it should import in the correct orientation.
No supports are necessary. There are some bridges, but they should print OK
provided you have some part cooling enabled.

## Installation

The panel mounts in the bottom of the reactangle formed by the 4040 extrusions
in the base of the Duender. Your electronics mounts to the base using the plugs
and adapter mounts from the FT EMS repository. I suggest working out the
electronics component placement while the EMS base is not installed, as it will
be easier to make adjustments. Once you have worked out the positions, remove
the components from the mounts, install the panel and re-install the components.

Use 8 sets of M5x8 bolt and M8 T-nut (should have a bunch available from the
corner braket packs) to bolt it to the lower V-slot. The EMS base should be
flush with the bottom of the 4040 extrusions, and should clear the Z-axis
steppers if you didn't space them any lower.

## CAD

The part is designed using FreeCAD. I can't provide STEP files, sorry, as
FreeCAD can only import STEP files, it cannot export them as far as I know.
